Sum of Repeated 5s
The answer is hidden by default.
Click “Show Answer” above to view the solution
1. Problem
Original image: The last term consists of 9 digits, all 5
Calculate:
5 + 55 + 555 + ... + 555555555 （最后一项有 9 个 5）
2. Method 1: Write Each Term as 5 times 111…1
The kth term has k digits, all 5, so it can be written as:
第 k 项 equals 5 times (111...1) equals 5 times (10 less than sup greater than k less than over sup greater than - 1) over 9
Therefore the original sum is:
S equals sigma[k equals 1 到 9] 5(10 less than sup greater than k less than over sup greater than - 1) over 9
Factor out 5 over 9:
S equals 5 over 9 times [(10 + 10 less than sup greater than 2 less than over sup greater than + ... + 10 less than sup greater than 9 less than over sup greater than ) - 9]
Here:
10 + 10 less than sup greater than 2 less than over sup greater than + ... + 10 less than sup greater than 9 less than over sup greater than equals (10 less than sup greater than 10 less than over sup greater than - 10) over 9
Substitute:
S equals 5 over 9 times [(10 less than sup greater than 10 less than over sup greater than - 10) over 9 - 9] equals 5(10 less than sup greater than 10 less than over sup greater than - 10 - 81) over 81 equals 5(10 less than sup greater than 10 less than over sup greater than - 91) over 81 equals 617283945
Answer: 617283945
3. Method 2: Column Pattern
Arrange the numbers vertically:
5 55 555 5555 55555 555555 5555555 55555555 555555555
From right to left, the first column has 9 fives, the second column has 8 fives, and so on.
Carrying column by column gives:
617283945
Answer: 617283945
4. Method 3: Observe the Pattern + Multiply by 10, Then Divide by 2
Supplementary image: First factor out 5, then observe the pattern of 1+11+111+…, and finally treat multiplying by 5 as multiplying by 10 and dividing by 2
First factor out 5 from every term:
5 + 55 + 555 + ... + 555555555 equals 5 times 1 + 5 times 11 + 5 times 111 + ... + 5 times 111111111 equals 5 times (1 + 11 + 111 + ... + 111111111)
Observe the sum inside the parentheses:
1 equals 1 1 + 11 equals 12 1 + 11 + 111 equals 123 1 + 11 + 111 + 1111 equals 1234
Continuing this pattern, we discover:
1 + 11 + 111 + ... + 111111111 equals 123456789
So the original sum becomes:
5 times 123456789
Now use “multiply by 5 equals multiply by 10, then divide by 2”:
5 times 123456789 equals 123456789 times 10 divided by 2 equals 1234567890 divided by 2 equals 617283945
The final step can be done mentally by dividing in parts
Answer: 617283945
5. Final Answer
5 + 55 + 555 + ... + 555555555 equals 617283945
Final answer: 617283945